GitHub PR training - Issue #11 (#12)
worldbank/dime-github-trainings: GitHub-trainings/github-pr-training/latex-slides/GitHub-PR-training.tex

			\item Complete the task using one or many commits - this example only requires one more commit
			\item Assign someone to review the PR - iterate until you are all satisfied
		\end{itemize}
	\end{minipage}

\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Merge stage}

	\vspace{-.5cm}
	\begin{minipage}[t][5cm][t]{\textwidth}
		\begin{figure}
			\centering
			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/dime-gitflow-network-1-3.png}
		\end{figure}
	\end{minipage}

	\vspace{-.5cm}
	\begin{minipage}[t][5cm][t]{\textwidth}
		\begin{itemize}
			\setlength\itemsep{.5em}
			\item Merge the PR
			\item Delete the \textit{feature} branch
			\item The green box represents a full \textit{branch-PR-merge} cycle in the network graph
		\end{itemize}
	\end{minipage}

\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Nested branch-PR-merge cycles}

	\huge\centering \textbf{Nested branch-PR-merge cycles}

\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Nested branch-PR-merge cycles}
	\begin{columns}[c]

		\column{.65\textwidth} % Left column and width
		\begin{itemize}
			\setlength\itemsep{.5em}
			\item \textbf{Develop branch} - a branch that is a high-level task that will have several \textit{feature} branches

> 			\item Many high-level tasks are not simple - multiple team members working over multiple month

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			\item Many high-level tasks are not simple - multiple team members working over multiple months
```

Reviewer: typo here

> 			\item Cleaning the baseline data, for example, data is one big task composed of many smaller tasks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			\item Cleaning the baseline data, for example, is one big task composed of many smaller tasks
```

Reviewer: typo

%Build the URL to this commit based on the information we now have
\newcommand{\commiturl}{\url{https://github.com/\reponame/commit/\commithash}}

%-----------------------------------------------
% --- Add your information here
\title{GitHub - Pull Request training}
\author{DIME Analytics}
\institute{DIME - The World Bank - \trainingURL{https://www.worldbank.org/en/research/dime}}
\date{\today}

\newcommand{\trainingURL}[1]{{\color{blue}\url{#1}}}

\newcommand{\traininerUsername}{kbjarkefur}
\newcommand{\repoName}{\traininerUsername/lyrics}
\newcommand{\trainingRepoURL}[1]{\trainingURL{github.com/\repoName #1}}
\newcommand{\trainerEmail}{\trainingURL{kbjarkefur@worldbank.org} }

% ---------------------------- Preamble ends here ----------------------------

\begin{document}

\begin{frame}
\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{../../Common-Resources/img/Header.png}
\vspace{-0.2cm}
\titlepage 	 % Opening slide, prints inform
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Who is this training for}
	
	
	\begin{columns}[c]
		
		\column{.65\textwidth} % Left column and width

		\large \textbf{Who is this training for?}
		
		\vspace{1em}
		

> 		Anyone comfortable branching, committing and merging in Git/GitHub, but wondering are ready to be introduced to a more advanced workflow using Git/GitHub to ensure high quality code.		

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		Anyone comfortable branching, committing and merging in Git/GitHub who is ready to be introduced to a more advanced workflow using Git/GitHub to ensure high quality code.		
```

		\centering 
		\large \textbf{Part 1}

		\vspace{1em}
		
		\raggedright
		\normalfont Introducing a framework for the \textit{branch-PR-merge} cycle,
		and best practices for each step
		
		\vspace{.5em}
		
		\normalfont This framework should be used for 
		each task implemented on Git/GitHub
		
		\column{.04\textwidth}
		
		\column{.4\textwidth} % Left column and width
		
		\centering 
		\large \textbf{Part 2}
		
		\vspace{1em}
		
		\raggedright
		\normalfont How to integrate the \textit{branch-PR-merge} cycle for a typical DIME research project
		
		\vspace{.5em}
		
		\normalfont Intro to the GitFlow philosophy
		
		\column{.08\textwidth}
		
	\end{columns}
	
	\end{frame}

\section{Part 1: \newline Best practices for the branch-PR-merge cycle}

\begin{frame}
\frametitle{The branch-PR-merge cycle}

	\begin{columns}[c]
	
		\column{.35\textwidth} % Left column and width
		\large The branch-PR-merge cycle 
		\vspace{.7cm}\newline
		\large Complete this cycle for \textbf{all tasks}
		\vspace{.7cm}\newline
		\large We will go over all steps but focus today on the \textbf{work stage}	

		\column{.65\textwidth} % Right column and width
		\vspace{-.75cm}
		\begin{figure}
			\centering

> 			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/branch-pr-merge-cycle.png}

Reviewer 2: I think this would be easier to read in color.

Author: Will add some color!

		\end{figure}
		
	\end{columns}
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Stage: The set up stage}
	
	\huge\centering \textbf{SET UP STAGE}
	
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Stage: The set up stage}
	\begin{columns}[c]
		
		\column{.35\textwidth} % Left column and width
		\begin{itemize}
			\setlength\itemsep{1em}
			\item Document the task you will work on

> 			\item Create a space in your repo where to work on the task

Author: ```suggestion
			\item Create a space in your repo to work on the task
```

		\end{itemize}
		
		\column{.65\textwidth} % Right column and width
		\vspace{-.75cm}
		\begin{figure}
			\centering
			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/branch-pr-merge-cycle-S1.png}
		\end{figure}
		
	\end{columns}
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Step: Create an issue}
	\begin{columns}[c]
		
		\column{.35\textwidth} % Left column and width
		\begin{itemize}
			\setlength\itemsep{1em}

> 			\item Issues is a great way to document what tasks needs to be done

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			\item Issues is a great way to document what tasks need to be done
```

> 			\item Allows other team members to provide input on how to solve something

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			\item They allow other team members to provide input on how to solve something
```

> 			\item Not needed if the task will be done immediately

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			\item You don't need to open an issue if the task will be done immediately and you don't need a place to record discussions about it
```

		\end{itemize}
		
		\column{.65\textwidth} % Right column and width
		\vspace{-.75cm}
		\begin{figure}
			\centering
			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/branch-pr-merge-cycle-S1-1.png}
		\end{figure}
		
	\end{columns}
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Create an issue}
	\begin{columns}[c]

		\column{.55\textwidth} % Right column and width
		\vspace{-.5cm}
		\begin{figure}
			\centering
			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/create-issue-1.png}
		\end{figure}
		
		\column{.45\textwidth} % Left column and width
		
		\begin{itemize}
			\setlength\itemsep{.5em}
			\item Click the issues tab and then \texttt{New Issue}
			\item Document the task and/or ask the rest of the team of input
			\item Assign yourself of someone - add labels

> 			\item A far superior way to document tasks compared to emails or in-person meetings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			\item Assign yourself or someone to complete the task
			\item Add labels to facilitate future searches
			\item This is far superior way to document tasks compared to emails or in-person meetings!
```

		\end{itemize}
			
	\end{columns}	
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Browse an issue}
	\begin{columns}[c]
		
		\column{.55\textwidth} % Right column and width
		\vspace{-.5cm}
		\begin{figure}
			\centering
			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/create-issue-2.png}
		\end{figure}
		
		\column{.45\textwidth} % Left column and width
		
		\begin{itemize}
			\setlength\itemsep{1em}
			\item Take note of issue number - can also be found in URL
			\item Anyone can use comment field to provide input
			\item You can update assignee and/or labels

> 			\item Even when closed, this issue may be browsed by future team members

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			\item Take note of issue number (also found in URL) so you can refer to it
			\item Anyone can use the comment field to provide input
			\item You can update assignees and/or labels
			\item Even when closed, this issue may be browsed by future team members
```

		\end{itemize}
		
	\end{columns}	
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Create a branch}
	\begin{columns}[c]
		
		\column{.35\textwidth} % Left column and width
		\begin{itemize}
			\setlength\itemsep{1em}
			\item Create branch on GitHub.com
			\item Name it after the task and suffix name with issue number
			\item For example: \texttt{pr-training-11}
		\end{itemize}
		
		\column{.65\textwidth} % Right column and width
		\vspace{-.75cm}
		\begin{figure}
			\centering
			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/branch-pr-merge-cycle-S1-2.png}

> 		\end{figure}

Reviewer 2: Would be good to add some discussion about why to open a new branch

Author: done in 1a4490838bd8b24199d592455b1f79440b4f56f5

		
	\end{columns}
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Open the PR}
	\begin{columns}[c]
		
		\column{.35\textwidth} % Left column and width
		\begin{itemize}
			\setlength\itemsep{1em}
			\item Create a PR \textbf{before} you start working

> 			\item Create a \textit{"draft PR"} for work in progress

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			\item Create a \textit{``draft PR''} for work in progress
```

			\item Reference branch name in PR name

> 		\end{itemize}

Reviewer 2: Also good to explain here why we open a PR before starting the work or fiinnishg it, since it's counter intuitive.

Author: done in 1a4490838bd8b24199d592455b1f79440b4f56f5

			\item Click the arrow on the green button and select \textit{Create draft pull request}
			\item A PR cannot be merged while in draft status - signals work in progress
		\end{itemize}
		
	\end{columns}	
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Browse draft PR}
	\begin{columns}[c]
		
		\column{.6\textwidth} % Right column and width
		\vspace{-.5cm}
		\begin{figure}
			\centering
			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/create-pr-2.png}
		\end{figure}
		
		\column{.4\textwidth} % Left column and width
		
		\begin{itemize}
			\setlength\itemsep{1em}
			\item A draft PR has the color code gray 
			\item You can follow someone's work here - but no need to do anything yet
			\item The author will eventually remove the draft status and ask for reviews
		\end{itemize}
		
	\end{columns}	
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Stage: The work stage}
	
	\huge\centering \textbf{WORK STAGE}
	
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Stage: The work stage}
	\begin{columns}[c]
		
		\column{.35\textwidth} % Left column and width
		\begin{itemize}
			\setlength\itemsep{1em}
			\item Most time will be spent in this stage

> 			\item Reviewing the code should be seen as important as writing it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			\item Reviewing the code should be seen as a step as important as writing it
```

			\item This stage will be repeated until the team agrees on the quality of the code
		\end{itemize}
		
		\column{.65\textwidth} % Right column and width
		\vspace{-.75cm}
		\begin{figure}
			\centering
			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/branch-pr-merge-cycle-S2.png}
		\end{figure}
		
	\end{columns}
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Make commits}
	\begin{columns}[c]
		
		\column{.35\textwidth} % Left column and width
		\begin{itemize}
			\setlength\itemsep{1em}
			\item The author commits edits as usual
			\item The draft PR will be updated as more commits are pushed to the branch		

> 			\item Keep pushing commits until the first version implementation of the task is completed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			\item Keep pushing commits until the first implementation of the task is complete
```

		\end{itemize}
		
		\column{.65\textwidth} % Right column and width
		\vspace{-.75cm}
		\begin{figure}
			\centering
			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/branch-pr-merge-cycle-S2-1.png}
		\end{figure}
		
	\end{columns}
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Update the PR}
	\begin{columns}[c]
		
		\column{.35\textwidth} % Left column and width
		\begin{itemize}
			\setlength\itemsep{1em}
			\item Remove the draft status from the PR
			\item Document what has been implemented in the PR
			\item Assign one or several people to review your PR
			\item Notify the assignee(s) using email or slack as GitHub notifications may be muted
		\end{itemize}
		
		\column{.65\textwidth} % Right column and width
		\vspace{-.75cm}
		\begin{figure}
			\centering
			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/branch-pr-merge-cycle-S2-2.png}
		\end{figure}
		
	\end{columns}
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Update the PR}
	\begin{columns}[c]
		
		\column{.35\textwidth} % Left column and width
		\begin{itemize}
			\setlength\itemsep{1em}

> 			\item This step is incredible important for high-quality code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			\item This step is incredibly important for high-quality code
```

			\item Use the PR to review code edits in the \textit{file changes} tab
			\item The reviewer adds code suggestions and comments
		\end{itemize}

> 		

Reviewer 2: Show how to make comments and suggestions?

Author: Done in daa460027cd223043d9667e739327be24d15c4fb

		\column{.65\textwidth} % Right column and width
		\vspace{-.75cm}
		\begin{figure}
			\centering
			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/branch-pr-merge-cycle-S2-3.png}
		\end{figure}
		
	\end{columns}
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Update the PR}
	\begin{columns}[c]
		
		\column{.35\textwidth} % Left column and width
		\begin{itemize}
			\setlength\itemsep{1em}

> 			\item The author accepts or discuss suggestions
> 			\item The author replies to comments
> 			\item Then the author and the reviewers (and anyone else in the project team) comes together and decides if the task is complete or not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			\item The author accepts or discusses suggestions and replies to comments
			\item Then the author and the reviewers (and anyone else in the project team) come together and decide if the task is complete or not
```

		\end{itemize}
		
		\column{.65\textwidth} % Right column and width
		\vspace{-.75cm}
		\begin{figure}
			\centering
			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/branch-pr-merge-cycle-S2-4.png}

> 		\end{figure}

Reviewer 2: Show how to 
- accept suggestions
- add suggestions to batch
- reply to comments
- mark comments as resolved

Author: done in c75524d6497ddfc67a62cdd95ba4047c9fdc17ec - although I will only mention batch. It is not really MVO and there are so many details in this training already. I might say it or they will find it by themselves

		
	\end{columns}
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Stage: The merge stage}
	
	\huge\centering \textbf{MERGE STAGE}
	
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Stage: The merge stage}
	\begin{columns}[c]
		
		\column{.35\textwidth} % Left column and width
		\begin{itemize}
			\setlength\itemsep{1em}

> 			\item Once the work stage is completed, the merge stage is quick

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			\item Once the work stage is complete, the merge stage is quick
```

			\item Then you can merge your well-reviewed and well-documented code
			
		\end{itemize}
		
		\column{.65\textwidth} % Right column and width
		\vspace{-.75cm}
		\begin{figure}
			\centering
			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/branch-pr-merge-cycle-S3-1.png}
		\end{figure}
		
	\end{columns}
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Delete the branch}
	\begin{columns}[c]
		
		\column{.35\textwidth} % Left column and width
		\begin{itemize}
			\setlength\itemsep{1em}
			\item Always delete the branch
			\item If you want to keep working in a branch with the same name, then re-create that branch
			\item Otherwise you risk working on an outdated version of the repo
		\end{itemize}
		
		\column{.65\textwidth} % Right column and width
		\vspace{-.75cm}
		\begin{figure}
			\centering
			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/branch-pr-merge-cycle-S3-2.png}
		\end{figure}
		
	\end{columns}
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Close issue}
	\begin{columns}[c]
		
		\column{.35\textwidth} % Left column and width
		If you created an issue for this task:
		\begin{itemize}
			\setlength\itemsep{.5em}
			\item Make sure that the PR number is referenced in the issue. 

> 			\item For example: \textit{"Issue resolved in PR \#12"}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			\item For example: \textit{``Issue resolved in PR \#12''}
```

			\item Then close the issue
		\end{itemize}
		
		\column{.65\textwidth} % Right column and width
		\vspace{-.75cm}
		\begin{figure}
			\centering
			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/branch-pr-merge-cycle-S3-3.png}
		\end{figure}
		
	\end{columns}
\end{frame}

> \section{Part 2: \newline GitFlow - How to fit the "branch-PR-merge" cycle into your workflow}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\section{Part 2: \newline GitFlow - How to fit the ``branch-PR-merge'' cycle into your workflow}
```

			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/branch-pr-merge-cycle-S1-1.png}
		\end{figure}
		
	\end{columns}
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Create an issue}
	\begin{columns}[c]

		\column{.55\textwidth} % Right column and width
		\vspace{-.5cm}
		\begin{figure}
			\centering
			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/create-issue-1.png}
		\end{figure}
		
		\column{.45\textwidth} % Left column and width
		
		\begin{itemize}
			\setlength\itemsep{.5em}
			\item Click the issues tab and then \texttt{New Issue}
			\item Document the task and/or ask the rest of the team of input
			\item Assign yourself or someone else to complete the task
			\item Add labels to facilitate future searches
			\item This is a far superior way to document tasks compared to emails or in-person meetings!
		\end{itemize}
			
	\end{columns}	
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Browse an issue}
	\begin{columns}[c]
		
		\column{.55\textwidth} % Right column and width
		\vspace{-.5cm}
		\begin{figure}
			\centering
			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/create-issue-2.png}
		\end{figure}
		
		\column{.45\textwidth} % Left column and width
		
		\begin{itemize}
			\setlength\itemsep{1em}

> 			\item Take note of the issue number (also found in URL) so you can refer to it

Reviewer: not super important in my opinion, but perhaps it would be useful to include an example URL so the slide shows where exactly is the issue number

Author: Done in f5ceeb42a1e713bce0567b068e47351742f6447b - I did not add a full URL as it took up too much space, but I indicated that the issue number is the number in the end of the URL

			\setlength\itemsep{1em}
			\item Always delete branches after they are merged
			\item If you want to keep working in a branch with the same name, then re-create that branch
			\item Otherwise you risk working on an outdated version of the repo
		\end{itemize}
		
		\column{.65\textwidth} % Right column and width
		\vspace{-.75cm}
		\begin{figure}
			\centering
			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/branch-pr-merge-cycle-S3-2.png}
		\end{figure}
		
	\end{columns}
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}
	\frametitle{Close issue}
	\begin{columns}[c]
		
		\column{.35\textwidth} % Left column and width
		If you created an issue for this task:
		\begin{itemize}
			\setlength\itemsep{.5em}
			\item Make sure that the PR number is referenced in the issue. 
			\item For example: \textit{``Issue resolved in PR \#12''}
			\item Then close the issue
		\end{itemize}
		
		\column{.65\textwidth} % Right column and width
		\vspace{-.75cm}
		\begin{figure}
			\centering
			\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./img/branch-pr-merge-cycle-S3-3.png}
		\end{figure}
		
	\end{columns}
\end{frame}

\section{Part 2: \newline GitFlow - How to fit the ``branch-PR-merge'' cycle into your workflow}

> \input{../../Common-Resources/slides/GitHub-Links.tex}

Reviewer: the first slide here has a typo: "adaptedfor" --> "adapted for"

Author: done

> \input{../../Common-Resources/slides/GitHub-Commit-URL.tex}

Reviewer: including this info is an interesting practice. Perhaps we can go even beyond and consider beginning to implement the use of  GH releases for course editions in our course repositories at Analytics!

Author: Interesting, but not something for this PR :) - Do you want to create an issue for this?

Reviewer: will do
